# SACCAR (Submersible Semi-Autonomous Climate Change Addressing Robot)

This is a subsystem for our SPARK project. For the SPARK project we try to address the Ocean related issues like sea grass monitoring, replantation, oil leakage incident monitoring, cleaning, Coral reef monitoring through developing an unmanned semi-autonomous or autonomous vehicle with low human intervention and resource allocation and easy to deploy vessel. The system will contain a small buoy like surface vessel that will be remote controlled or autonomous and it will be connected to the submersible via ethernet via ethernet. This configuration solves lot of issues without expensive equipment. We got this project by talking with a Dr. Manoj from mechanical department and he said there were some issues that needed addressing in the "Nationally Determined Contributions Implementation Plan (2021 - 2030)" issued by ministry of Environment and said he is willing to direct us to the relevant stakeholders and we are currenntly having discussions with him regarding the project future.

## Technical Context
Our solution provides an innovative approach to marine environmental monitoring and remediation through a cost-effective dual-vessel system. By connecting a surface unit with a submersible component, we enable operations in environments traditionally requiring expensive specialized equipment.

# Subsystem

What I tried to do under the individual raspberry pi project is implement a low latency communication protocol using ethernet between two raspberry pi devices which will be placed on a surface vessel and the submersible and a localization relative to the vessel using connected threads. As the GPS or radio signals do not travel far in water we have to use wired communication channel or transducer based communication system. And aslo dead reckoning based or transducer, sonar, DLC based localization equipment that is usually employed are too costly, what I wanted to do was localising the submersible relative to the surface vessel using angle, length subtended by the thrads (Which is far complicated than I thought but it is done to a some extent in some researches). 

## Communication Implementation Progress

Currently I have only succeeded with implementing ethernet communication (which is not much I know) but was trying to make both ends synchronize by different methods. Used PTP which didn't work as it requires hardware level time-stamping and either my RPi or the Ubuntu PC (which simulates the 2nd rpi) has not supports time-stamp changing network interface. So I was looking at other methods for synchronization at both ends as usual NTP synchronization is wrong at 0.1 micro-seconds and it might actually not be an issue but as this channel will be used to send synchronized thruster control signals and image frames, proper logging and debugging I thought it might be necessary. And also was trying to get the camera footage from the RPi to the PC using ethernet but barely succeeded using some chatgpt here and there and it is not upto my expectation. Custom implemented UI and with modified packet still not works properly as for some reason the frame size (by frame I mean the image frame size) in the packet information overflows to the max value (This code is what is on the [github](https://github.com/KiranGunathilaka/SACCAR) right now). My final goal here would be to after doing more research about controlling aspect, implement the entire Command UI for the vessel and the submerssible, get 60 fps footage from the submerssible to the pc (surface vessel) with minimum delay, instead of generating dummy data from the submerssible RPI like now- connect it to the MCU(which will be used to control the thrusters) using USB CDC get status info and send control comands. 


## Localization aspect progress

The localising part I found some research papers like [this one](https://dspace.lib.cranfield.ac.uk/server/api/core/bitstreams/d97fc065-a15d-42e7-bf11-fb45f60207f1/content) which uses a similar approach to what I am trying. Haven't still started implementing. Was still working and researching on this project as there were SLIOT (approx 1.5 month), Robogames (3 months, 3 rounds), SLRC, Brainstrom, DV Con (Which I finally gave up), Autonomous mobile robot for EDR and some other minor projects.
